The 201112 season was Stevenage F.C.'s second season in the Football League, where the club competed in League One. This article shows statistics of the club's players in the season, and also lists all matches that the club played during the season. Their sixth-place finish and subsequent successful play-off campaign meant it was Stevenage's first ever season of playing in League One, having only spent one season in League Two. The season also marked the second season that the club played under its new name  Stevenage Football Club, dropping 'Borough' from its title as of 1 June 2010. The season started out as the third year in charge for manager Graham Westley during his second spell at the club; having previously managed the Hertfordshire side from 2003 to 2006. However, Westley left Stevenage in January 2012, and joined fellow League One side Preston North End. The vacant managerial position was filled by former Colorado Rapids manager Gary Smith, signing a contract until 2014.Ahead of the club's first season in League One, Westley adopted the same "five in, five out" transfer policy as he had done for the two previous seasons. Strikers Yemi Odubade and Charlie Griffin were the first to leave having been loaned out for much of the previous campaign, joining Conference National sides Gateshead and Forest Green Rovers respectively. Second choice goalkeeper Ashley Bayes opted to leave the club in order to play first-team football at Conference South club Basingstoke Town. Luke Foster and David Bridges also opted to leave Stevenage ahead of the season, both on free transfers, with Foster signing for Rotherham United, and Bridges for his former club, Kettering Town. Stevenage's first signing of the season was striker Guy Madjo, who joined on a free transfer from Albanian Superliga side KS Bylis Ballsh. Former Stevenage goalkeeper Alan Julian re-joined the club following his release by Gillingham, while Phil Edwards rejected a contract extension at Accrington Stanley in order to join the Hertfordshire club on a free transfer. Midfielders Jennison Myrie-Williams and Robin Shroot also signed on free transfers following successful trial periods with the club. In terms of transfers during the 201112 campaign, striker Don Cowan joined the club from Longford Town for an undisclosed fee in August 2011, and winger Luke Freeman signed from Arsenal in January 2012, after a successful three-month loan spell with the club. Strikers Byron Harrison and Guy Madjo both departed in January 2012, signing for League Two sides AFC Wimbledon and Aldershot Town for respective undisclosed fees.Stevenage started their first ever League One campaign brightly, losing just one of their first eight League One fixtures, as well as securing a notable 51 home victory over Sheffield Wednesday. However, a run of four successive defeats moved Stevenage into the lower half of the league. A 10 victory over then-unbeaten league leaders, Charlton Athletic, would ultimately serve as the catalyst for an eleven-game unbeaten run, which included a 61 away win at Colchester United. The run had propelled Stevenage onto the edge of the play-off places. Following Westley's departure to Preston, captain Mark Roberts took caretaker charge of the club, winning two games out of three, including another large victory away from home, this time against Rochdale. New manager Gary Smith took charge of his first league game, away at Sheffield Wednesday in February 2012, securing a 10 victory. Sitting in the play-off places with a number of games in hand, Stevenage went on to win just one league game out of the following thirteen, although nine of which were draws. The poor run of form left Stevenage in ninth position, and six points behind the play-off places with just five games remaining. A run of four wins out of their last five matches, two of which against play-off rivals Carlisle United and Brentford, and another a 60 away win against Yeovil Town, meant that Stevenage ended up securing the final play-off spot on goal difference  following a 30 home victory against Bury on the last day of the season. Stevenage played third placed Sheffield United over two legs in the play-off semi-finals, losing 10 on aggregate.Stevenage also competed in three cup competitions during the season. They fell at the first hurdle in both the League Cup and Football League Trophy, losing at home to Championship side Peterborough United in the League Cup, as well as suffering a penalty defeat away to AFC Wimbledon in the Football League Trophy. Despite the early cup disappointment, Stevenage were to make history in the FA Cup, reaching the Fifth Round for the first time in their history. After disposing of Hartlepool United and non-league Stourbridge away, Stevenage beat Championship club Reading at the Madejski Stadium. A 10 victory in their first home game of the competition against fellow League One side Notts County lined up a Fifth Round home tie with Premier League side Tottenham Hotspur. The two sides played out a 00 draw at Broadhall Way, with Tottenham winning the subsequent replay at White Hart Lane.Striker Chris Beardsley finished as Stevenage's top goalscorer for the season with ten goals in all competitions. Captain Mark Roberts played every single minute of Stevenage's 56 matches during the season. Roberts ended up winning the Player of the Year award for the season, with Michael Bostwick winning Players' Player of the Year.