The 2013 season marked So Paulo's 84th year since the club's existence. Playing in the Campeonato Paulista, the club reached the semi-finals, before being eliminated in a penalty shoot-out after a 0-0 (3-4) against Corinthians. So Paulo participated in the continental tournament, Copa Libertadores, returning to the most important South American competition following a two-year absence, in a spot by the title of Copa Sudamericana won in the previous year and by the qualifying group of national league with a 4th position reached in the end of competition. Due the continental title of Copa Sudamericana, the team was enabled to dispute of Recopa Sudamericana (against the winner of Copa Libertadores and rival Corinthians) and Suruga Bank Championship (playing against 2012 J. League Cup champion Kashima Antlers). In the first opportunity of title by the Recopa Sudamericana the Tricolor was defeated by rival with a two-legs lost (12 home; 02 away). Before long the club went to Japan to compete the Suruga Bank Championship and over again was defeated by opponent in a single match result: 23. In participation of Copa Libertadores the team advanced the first and second stages but was eliminated on the round of 16 by the club which would be champion that year, Atltico Mineiro, with two negative results (12 home; 14 away). On the second half of the year, So Paulo had hard times with an historical winless sequence of 14 matches (12 by official competitions) being only closed in a friendly match against Benfica just after 2 months and hand an official victory against Fluminense 2 weeks later by the Campeonato Brasileiro. Due the negative campaign Tricolor remained on the relegated group for 11 rounds achieving the 9th position on the end of season by recovery at the second half of championship after the return of notable coach Muricy Ramalho who trained So Paulo in two previous opportunities reaching 4 titles including an historical sequence of 3 titles in national league. After Muricy Ramalho's arrival the team improved the average of points earned, reaching the fourth position in second half of league. In the end of season So Paulo play the Copa Sudamericana by defend of the title won in the previous edition, however the team was defeated in semi-finals by another paulista club Ponte Preta with (1-3 home; 1-1 away).