"Baby I" is a song recorded by American singer Ariana Grande for her debut studio album Yours Truly (2013). It was written by Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds, Antonio Dixon and Patrick "J. Que" Smith and produced by the first two. The song was released by Republic Records on July 22, 2013, as the second single from the album. The song was initially written with the singer Beyonc in mind, but she rejected it. "Baby I" is a pop and R&B song with drums, horns and a syncopated beat. It also contains an uptempo '90s-inspired beat. Lyrically, the song is about not being able to fully express your feelings towards someone you love. The song was well received by music critics who complimented the song's "throwback" sound while others praised Grande's vocals comparing to the singer Mariah Carey.
The song was serviced to contemporary hit radio in the United States on August 8, 2013. Commercially, it debuted on the Billboard Hot 100 at its peak position of number 21 mainly due to the strong digital sales, 141,000 copies, during its first week of availability, and stayed in the charts for four non-consecutive weeks. The single also earned a top twenty peak on the US Dance Club Songs and charted within the top thirty of the Rhythmic chart. Internationally, the recording placed in number 67 in Australia, 57 in Canada, while reaching number six in Japan and earned a gold certification in the country becoming Grande's first top 10 single in this region. "Baby I" has since been certified Gold by the RIAJ and Platinum by the RIAA.
It was accompanied by a music video directed by Ryan Pallotta and filmed in the Koreatown neighborhood of Los Angeles. It was released on Vevo channel on September 5, 2013. The video was well received by critics who complimented Grande's styling and the video's concept. According to Grande, she wanted to emulate "the breeziness of early 90s music videos" and cited the style of actor Will Smith and the group TLC as two sources of inspiration. It featured Grande dancing in the streets wearing top and shorts.