The Bah' Faith (; Persian:  Bah'i) is a religion teaching the essential worth of all religions, and the unity and equality of all people. Established by Bah'u'llh in 1863, it initially grew in Iran and parts of the Middle East, where it has faced ongoing persecution since its inception. Currently it has between 5 and 8 million adherents, known as Bah's, spread out into most of the world's countries and territories.It grew from the mid-19th-century Bb religion, whose founder taught that God would soon send a prophet in the same way of Jesus or Muhammad. In 1863, after being banished from his native Iran, Bah'u'llh (1817-1892) announced that he was this prophet. He was further exiled, spending over a decade in the prison city of Akka in Ottoman Palestine. Following Bah'u'llh's death in 1892, leadership of the religion fell to his son `Abdu'l-Bah (18441921), and later his great-grandson Shoghi Effendi (18971957). Bah's around the world annually elect local, regional, and national Spiritual Assemblies that govern the affairs of the religion, and every five years the members of all National Spiritual Assemblies elect the Universal House of Justice, the nine-member supreme governing institution of the worldwide Bah' community, which sits in Haifa, Israel, near the Shrine of the Bb.
Bah' teachings are in some ways similar to other monotheistic faiths: God is considered single and all-powerful. However, Bah'u'llh taught that religion is orderly and progressively revealed by one God through Manifestations of God who are the founders of major world religions throughout history; Buddha, Jesus, and Muhammad being the most recent in the period before the Bb and Bah'u'llh. Bah's regard the major religions as fundamentally unified in purpose, though varied in social practices and interpretations. There is a similar emphasis on the unity of all people, openly rejecting notions of racism and nationalism. At the heart of Bah' teachings is the goal of a unified world order that ensures the prosperity of all nations, races, creeds, and classes.Letters written by Bah'u'llh to various individuals, including some heads of state, have been collected and assembled into a canon of Bah' scripture that includes works by his son `Abdu'l-Bah, and also the Bb, who is regarded as Bah'u'llh's forerunner. Prominent among Bah' literature are the Kitb-i-Aqdas, Kitb-i-qn, Some Answered Questions, and The Dawn-Breakers.