Berlin Tegel "Otto Lilienthal" Airport (German: Flughafen Berlin-Tegel Otto Lilienthal) (IATA: TXL, ICAO: EDDT) is the main international airport of Berlin, the federal capital of Germany. It formerly served West Berlin. The airport is named after Otto Lilienthal and is the fourth busiest airport in Germany, with 20.5 million passengers in 2017. The airport is a hub for Eurowings as well as base for EasyJet, and Germania. It features flights to several European metropolitan and leisure destinations as well as some intercontinental routes. It is situated in Tegel, a section of the northern borough of Reinickendorf, 8 km (5.0 mi) northwest of the city centre of Berlin. Tegel Airport is notable for its hexagonal main terminal building around an open square, which makes walking distances as short as 30 m (98 ft) from the aircraft to the terminal exit.
The airport was scheduled to close in June 2012 after Berlin Brandenburg Airport (BER) opened, but due to ongoing delays with BER, the future of Tegel is uncertain. A campaign was launched to keep Tegel Airport open, which gathered signatures for a referendum for voters to decide on the future of the airport. While the referendum was non-binding, it did result in a majority of votes cast in favor of keeping Tegel open and the city government subsequently announced to look into the possibilities of doing that again. However, the two other airport shareholders  the German federal state as well as the state of Brandenburg  already declined any change of plans and confirmed the planned closure of Tegel.Future plans also involve the redevelopment of Berlin Tegel Airport into the Urban Tech Republic, 221 hectares of building land will be available for up to 800 companies with some 17,500 employees in the Research and Industrial Park alone. In the central airport terminal, the Beuth University of Applied Sciences will establish the scientific core of the new technology park, with up to 2,500 students. It is envisaged that the adjoining areas will be used both for research and development and for manufacturing companies. Berlin TXL will also make an 80 hectares area available for industrial uses  the largest single inner-city development area in Berlin.