Brisbane Roar Football Club is a professional Australian soccer club based in Brisbane, Queensland.  and has won the domestic title on three separate occasions, as well as holding the longest unbeaten record of 36 league matches without defeat.Brisbane competes in the country's premier competition, the A-League, under licence from Football Federation Australia.The club was formed in 1957 as Hollandia-Inala, and became Brisbane Lions, before it transitioned into Queensland Roar, playing under that name from the inaugural 200506 season of the A-League until the 200809 season.. Since joining the A-League, the club has won two league Premierships, three Championships and has competed in five AFC Champions League competitionsBrisbane Roar holds the record for the longest unbeaten run at the top level of any Australian football code, which stands at 36 league matches without defeat. Brisbane Roar are also the first and only club to win back to back Hyundai A-League Championships.
The club plays home matches at Suncorp Stadium, a 52,500 seat multi-use venue in Milton, with First team training taking place at Logan Heritage Park which also hosts the clubs administration staff. In March 2018, the club relocated its Playing and Administration Headquarters to a purpose built, $9 million Center-of-Excellence in Logan hosting training, sports science and medical facilities for the A League team, W-League team and over 16 youth development teams; the new CoE also host the club's administration staff as well .. 
Brisbane Roar is the only club in the A-League not to have lost a Grand Final.
The youth team competes in the National Youth League and the women's team competes in the W-League. Commencing in 2014, the youth and women's teams also compete in the NPL Queensland in order to maintain fitness and further develop their abilities. The youth team competes in the senior men's division while the women's team compete in the U15 boy's division. The youth and women matches are played at various locations across Brisbane, including Heritage Park, Goodwin Park, QSAC, A.J. Kelly Park, Perry Park and occasionally Suncorp Stadium.