Chiara Civello (born June 15, 1975 in Rome, Italy), is an Italian singer, songwriter, pianist and guitarist.
When Civello was seventeen, she sang in a band with Mario Raja, then Roberto Gatto. On a scholarship, she moved to Boston in 1994 to attend the Berklee College of Music. After graduating, she moved to New York City and met Russ Titelman, who produced her first album, (Verve, 2005). The album was influenced by Brazilian music, with vocals by Daniel Jobim, the grandson of Antonio Carlos Jobim, and cover versions of "Outono" by Rosa Passos and "Caramel" by Suzanne Vega. Civello wrote one song, "Trouble", with Burt Bacharach. She was accompanied by Steve Gadd, Larry Goldings, Jamey Haddad, Mike Mainieri, Rob Mounsey, Adam Rogers, and Ben Street.The second album The Space Between, produced by Steve Addabbo and Pete Rende (Universal Jazz and Classics, 2007), showed us in an intimate-acoustic setting, another aspect of Chiaras music. 13 original songs such as UN PASSO DOPO LALTRO, NIGHT, IF YOU EVER THINK OF ME and L train co-written with NY based guitar player Jim Campilongo
The third album called 7752 produced by latin pop producerAndres Levin (Universal Jazz and Classics 2010) refers to a specific geographical connotation:  the distance in kilometers between New York and Rio De Janeiro. After a short visit to Daniel Jobim in Rio in 2008,  great collaborations with other artists made Chiara explore closely the Brazilian music community. 
Brazilian singer songwriter Ana Carolina, was the main collaborator on this album. Their first composition together,RESTA, became the soundtrack of a very well known soap-opera Passione]], produced by the GLOBO TV. 
Produced by latin pop producer Andres Levin, 7752 featured a great cast of musicians like Jaques Morelenbaum on the cello and strings arrangement Tom Jobim, Caetano Veloso, Gilberto Gil, Ruichi Sakamoto), Mark Ribot on guitar, Mauro Refosco as a percussionist and Anat Cohen on sax and clarinet . This album definitely showed a new phase of Chiaras music: more pop, more accessible and ironic in happy alchemy between 60s rock, Italian melody, Brazilian harmony and R&B. 
In 2012 Chiara took part in the Sanremo Festival, with a song written with Italian/Spanish songwriter Diana Tejera which gave the title to her fourth studio Album: AL POSTO DEL MONDO. The song received critical acclaim and airplay and that same year the song Problemi/Problemas  interpreted by Ana Carolina, already soundtrack of the Soap Opera FINA ESTAMPA, won the Premio Multishow prize for best song of 2012 in Brazil. 
With Canzoni,( Sony,2014) the fifth studio album, Chiara Civello, for the first time stands out in the unedited role of torch singer and immerged herself in the Italian repertoire: an album of love songs carefully picked from the 60s to now, blending influences of Northern Soul, Bossa Nova, Blue Eyed Soul, Jazz with international Pop and vibrant and velvety vocals like that of Julie London and Dusty Springfield, Shirley Horn and Nina Simone, who have always inspired Chiaras artistic journey. 
Gilberto Gil, Chico Buarque, Ana Carolina Esperanza Spalding sang duets on "Io che non vivo senza te"(Gil) "Io che amo solo te"(Chico Biarque) "E penso a te" (Ana Carolina) and an Italian version of "The windmills of your mind"(Esperanza Spalding). The orchestral arrangements were conceived by  Eumir Deodato. DJ/Producer Nicola Conte provided an blend of contemporary sensibility and old school analog sound. 
In Eclipse the sixth studio album where the fundamental elements of Chiara's music acquired a new flavor thanks to the production of Marc Collin (aka Nouvelle Vague) who found a new balance between classic atmospheres and modern sound by blending brazilian influeneces, a few excerpts from Italian cinema, and subliminal electronics 
Civello has written and sung in five languages: Italian, English, Spanish, French and Portuguese.
Collaborated and sang duets with James Taylor (on the album October Road), Juan Luis Guerra (on the album La llave de mi corazon), Pino Daniele (on the album (Ricomincio da 30).