Louisiana Tech University, colloquially referred to as Louisiana Tech or La. Tech, is a  public research university in Ruston, Louisiana. It is a space grant college, member of the Southeastern Universities Research Association, member of the Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities, and classified as an "R3: Doctoral University with moderate research activity". It is a member of the University of Louisiana System.
Louisiana Tech conducts research with ongoing projects funded by agencies such as National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Department of Defense (DoD), and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Louisiana Tech is one of fewer than 50 comprehensive research universities in the nation and the only university in Louisiana to be designated as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education and Research and a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education and Research by the National Security Agency (NSA) and the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Also, the FAA named Louisiana Tech to the National Center of Excellence for Unmanned Aircraft Systems. The university is known for its engineering and science programs.
Louisiana Tech opened as the Industrial Institute and College of Louisiana in 1894 during the Second Industrial Revolution. The original mission of the college was for the education of students in the arts and sciences for the purpose of developing an industrial economy in post-Reconstruction Louisiana. Four years later in 1898, the state constitution changed the school's name to Louisiana Industrial Institute. In 1921, the college changed its name to Louisiana Polytechnic Institute to reflect its development as a larger institute of technology. Under the leadership of Dr. F. Jay Taylor, the college continued to grow and change over time. Louisiana Polytechnic Institute became desegregated in the 1960s. It officially changed its name to Louisiana Tech University in 1970 as it satisfied criteria of a research university.
Louisiana Tech enrolled 12,873 students in five academic colleges during the Fall 2017 academic quarter including 1,519 students in the graduate school. In addition to the main campus in Ruston, Louisiana Tech holds classes at the Louisiana Tech University Shreveport Center, Cyber Innovation Center in Bossier City, Barksdale Air Force Base, and on the CenturyLink campus in Monroe.
Louisiana Tech fields 16 varsity NCAA Division I sports teams (7 men's, 9 women's teams) and is a member of Conference USA of the Football Bowl Subdivision. The university is known for its Bulldogs football team and Lady Techsters women's basketball program which won three national championship titles (1981, 1982, 1988) and made 13 Final Four appearances in the program's history.