Maximilian I (Ferdinand Maximilian Joseph Maria; 6 July 1832  19 June 1867) was the only monarch of the Second Mexican Empire. He was a younger brother of the Austrian emperor Franz Joseph I. After a distinguished career in the Austrian Navy as its commander, he accepted an offer by Napoleon III of France to rule Mexico, conditional on a national plebiscite in his favour. France (along with the United Kingdom and Spain, who both withdrew the following year after negotiating agreements with Mexico's republican government) invaded the Mexican Republic in the winter of 1861, as part of the War of the French Intervention. Seeking to legitimize French rule in the Americas, Napoleon III invited Maximilian to establish a new Mexican monarchy. With the support of the French army and a group of conservative Mexican monarchists hostile to the liberal administration of the new Mexican president, Benito Jurez, Maximilian traveled to Mexico and declared himself Emperor of Mexico on 10 April 1864.The Empire managed to gain recognition by several European powers including Britain, Austria, and Prussia. The United States however, continued to recognize Jurez as the legal president of Mexico. Maximilian never completely defeated the Mexican Republic; Republican forces led by President Benito Jurez continued to be active during Maximilian's rule. With the end of the American Civil War in 1865, the United States (which had been too distracted by its own civil war to confront the Europeans' 1861 invasion of what it considered to be its sphere of influence) began more explicit aid of President Jurez's forces. Matters worsened for Maximilian after French armies withdrew from Mexico in 1866. His self-declared empire collapsed, and he was captured and executed by the Mexican government, which then restored the Mexican Republic.
His wife, Charlotte of Belgium (Carlota), who had left for Europe earlier to try to build support for her husband's regime, suffered an emotional collapse after his death and apparently became insane.