Microphone Records (Latvian: Mikrofona ieraksti or short MicRec) is the leader of the Latvian music industry, since 1992, when the first record was released with a 'MicRec' brand label. Microphone Records is the most experienced and well-known Latvian record label and distribution company founded in 1993 by a professional radio journalist Elita Mlgrve and a professional record producer and musician Guntars Ras. Since 1996 Microphone Records has a license agreement with the EMIGroup on promoting and marketing EMI and Virgin artists in the Baltic states.Microphone Records owns the following labels MicRec, Aktiv and Raib Taurea Ieraksti, and also operates as the official distributor for the Sony BMG, Universal Music, Playground, Elap and Going for a Song record labels, among others. Microphone Records has a publishing division "MicRec Publishing" the sub publisher for EMI Music Publishing and Sony/ATV.
Latvia's biggest pop, rock and dance music artists are signed with Microphone Records some of the names including, Raimonds Pauls, Prta Vtra (Brainstorm), Lauris Reiniks,  Lvi, Credo, Prkons, Vaidava, Laima Vaikule, Olga Rajecka, Turaidas Roze, Zodiaks, Remix, Igo, Eolika, Menuets, Zigmars Liepi, Jnis Lsns, Ingus Bauenieks, Valdis Atls, Ieva Akuratere, Tumsa, DJ Ella, BTH, Opus Pro, Aisha, Andris rglis, bet bet, Jauns Mness, Dzeguzte, Knpas un Knaui, Normunds Rutulis, Ance Krauze, Marija Naumova, Marhils un daudzi, and many others are a part of the talent Microphone Records has.
Microphone Records is one of the few record companies, in the region, with an international success. MicRec has gotten chart entries at the UK Top 40 (BTH) as well as the France Club Chart (DJ Ella). Represented band "Brainstorm" has had chart entries in Belgium, Germany, Poland, Sweden and many other European countries. MicRec, as of now has had 7 artists competing at the grand finals of the Eurovision song contest.
In 2011 Microphone Records released Lauris Reiniks album "Es skrienu", which was later re-released in Estonia ("Ma jooksen") & Lithuania ("A bgu") as well as Germany ("Ich renne").