The Universidad Nacional de Colombia (English: National University of Colombia) is a public, national, coeducational, research university, located primarily in Bogot, Medelln, Manizales and Palmira, Colombia. Established in 1867 by an act of the Congress of Colombia, the university is the largest higher education institution of the country with more than 44,000 students, the largest number of graduated professionals per year, and number of academic programmes at undergraduate and graduate levels, with 430 academic programmes, which includes 96 graduate diplomas, 67 academic specializations, 39 medical specialties, 161 master's degrees, and 58 doctorates. It is also one of the few universities that employs post-doctorate fellows in the country. Approximately 40,000 students are studying for an undergraduate degree and 4,000 for a graduate degree. The National University of Colombia is one of the best universities in Colombia and Latin America, for its high degree of education and research achievement in several rankings of universities in Latin America and around the globe.The university is a member of the Association of Colombian Universities (ASCUN), the Iberoamerican Association of Postgraduate Universities (AUIP), and the Iberoamerican University Network Universia.  Along with Antioquia and Valle universities, it is part of what is known as the Golden Triangle of higher education in Colombia, being among the most selective and competitive universities in the country. A study by SCImago Research Group found that the National University of Colombia produces the largest number of scientific papers published in peer-refereed publications, and the 17th most prolific in Latin America. Furthermore, according to the Latin-American Web Ranking of Universities, the National University of Colombia ranks first place in internet presence in the country. It is also among the first universities in the region. Among the universities of CIVETS countries, the National University occupied second place.The institution offers a wide selection of programmes in both undergraduate and graduate levels, such as medicine, nursing, dentistry, engineering, chemistry, pharmacy, mathematics, physics, geology, biology, psychology, social sciences, arts (music, fine arts), languages, philosophy, and law. Being the first university in Colombia to open a Computer Science program.