According to Non resident Nepali act, 2007 Non Resident Nepali (NRN) (Nepali:   , Gair Aawasiya Nepali) means the following:
(a) A person who Currently holds citizenship of Nepal, who may or may not have acquired a citizenship of another country(s), who currently does not reside in Nepal for various reason.
(b) A Former Nepalese Citizen (  /"Bhutpurba Nepali Ngarik") means a person who once held a Nepalese citizenship (By birth, ancestry blood rights or by other means) and has denounced (legally) his/her Nepalese Citizenship.
(c) Foreign citizen of Nepalese origin (   /"Nepali Mulko Bideshi Ngarik") means a person who him/herself or whose father, mother, grandfather or grandmother was/were a citizen of Nepal at any time and has subsequently acquired the citizenship of any other foreign country other than a member country of the South Asian Association of Regional Co-operation (SAARC).
(d) Nepali citizen residing abroad ( /"Aaprabashi Nepali") means a Nepali citizen who has been residing in any foreign country for at least two years by doing any profession, occupation, business and employment except a Nepalese citizen residing in a member country of SAARC or serving in a diplomatic mission or consulate situated in a foreign country under the assignment of the Government of Nepal.
(e) Person of Nepali origin is a person of Nepali origin or ancestry who was or whose ancestors were born in Nepal or  other nations with Nepalese ancestry but is not a citizen of Nepal and is the citizen of another country. A person of Nepali origin might have been a citizen of Nepal and subsequently taken the citizenship of another country.
Other terms with vaguely the same meaning are Overseas Nepali, Nepali origin and Expatriate Nepali. In common usage, this often includes Nepali-born individuals (and also people of other nations with Nepalese ancestry) who have taken the citizenship of other countries. The majority of Non Resident Nepalese reside in India.
The Non Resident Nepali Association was established by the conference held by 1114 October 2003 in Kathmandu, Nepal. The seventh NRNA global conference was held in 1417 October 2017 in Kathmandu.
The mother tongue languages of Non Resident Nepalese are Nepali, Newari or Nepal bhasa, Kirat and Limbuwan bhasa, Tamuwan (Gurung) and Magar bhasa, Maithili and Tharu bhasa, Sudurpaschimeli Khas bhasa.
A foreign Citizen of Nepalese Origin may choose to speak in another language other than Nepalese.
Activities
NRN are opening business opportunities in Nepal by investing in various sectors such as banking, tourism, hotel, hydropower and many more.

