Francisco Gustavo Snchez Gomes (21 December 1947  25 February 2014), known as Paco de Luca [p.ko e lu.i.], was a Spanish virtuoso flamenco guitarist, composer and producer. A leading proponent of the new flamenco style, he helped legitimize flamenco among the establishment in Spain, and was one of the first flamenco guitarists to cross over successfully into other genres of music such as classical and jazz. Richard Chapman and Eric Clapton, authors of Guitar: Music, History, Players, describe de Luca as a "titanic figure in the world of flamenco guitar", and Dennis Koster, author of Guitar Atlas, Flamenco, has referred to de Luca as "one of history's greatest guitarists".De Luca was noted for his fast and fluent picados (fingerstyle runs). A master of contrast, he often juxtaposed picados and rasgueados (flamenco strumming) with more sensitive playing and was known for adding abstract chords and scale tones to his compositions with jazz influences. These innovations saw him play a key role in the development of traditional flamenco and the evolution of new flamenco and Latin jazz fusion from the 1970s. He received acclaim for his recordings with flamenco singer Camarn de la Isla in the 1970s, recording ten albums which are considered some of the most important and influential in flamenco history.Some of de Luca's best known recordings include Ro Ancho (later fused with Al Di Meola's Mediterranean Sundance), Entre dos aguas, La Barrosa, mpetu, Cepa Andaluza and Gloria al Nio Ricardo. His collaborations with guitarists John McLaughlin, Al Di Meola and Larry Coryell in the late 1970s saw him gain wider popularity outside his native Spain. De Luca formed the Paco de Luca Sextet in 1981 with his brothers, singer Pepe de Luca and guitarist Ramn de Algeciras, and collaborated with jazz pianist Chick Corea on their 1990 album, Zyryab. In 1992, he performed live at Expo '92 in Seville and a year later on the Plaza Mayor in Madrid. After 2004 he greatly reduced his public performances, retiring from full touring, and typically only gave several concerts a year, usually in Spain and Germany and at European festivals during the summer months.