Peter Raymont (born February 28, 1950 in Ottawa, Ontario) is a Canadian filmmaker and producer and the president of White Pine Pictures, an independent film, television and new media production company based in Toronto. Among his films are "Shake Hands with the Devil: The Journey of Romeo Dallaire" (2005), "A Promise to the Dead: The Exile Journey of Ariel Dorfman" (2007), "The World Stopped Watching" (2003) and "The World Is Watching" (1988). The 2011 feature documentary "West Wind: The Vision of Tom Thomson" and 2009's "Genius Within: The Inner Life of Glenn Gould", were co-directed with Michle Hozer. Raymont is Executive Producer of the television drama series, The Border, which he co-created with Lindalee Tracey, Janet MacLean and Jeremy Hole. The Border's 3 seasons have been broadcast in more than 25 countries. He is also the Executive Producer of the CBC drama series, Cracked, a Toronto-based police procedural which explores the intersection of the law and mental illness.[ Cracked's 2 seasons are also broadcast in France, Germany, USA and elsewhere.
Raymont's documentary feature, Shake Hands with the Devil: The Journey of Romo Dallaire was honoured with the 2005 Audience Award for World Cinema Documentaries at The Sundance Film Festival and the 2007 Emmy Award for Best Documentary.
[ "A Promise To The Dead" was short-listed for the 2007 Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature.
"Genius Within" premiered at the 2009 Toronto International Film Festival, followed by invitational presentations at the International Documentary Film Festival in Amsterdam (IDFA) and several other festivals worldwide (Full Frame, Vancouver, Seattle, Sydney, Melbourne, Hawaii, Bermuda). The film opened theatrically across Canada, USA and Australia in 2010, playing in over 50 US cities. A two-hour version of the film was broadcast on the PBS series "American Masters" in December, 2010. "Genius Within" won the 2010 Gemini Award for Best Biography Documentary presented by the Canadian Academy of Cinema and Television, and was short-listed for an Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature. 
[.