Roy Black (30 October 1927  28 December 2009) was a British-born businessman, known for his work at Electronic Rentals Group, a UK public company during the 1960s in Dublin, Ireland specialising in television rentals. By 1970, ERG was the world's second largest Electronic Rental Company in the world with operations in 22 countries. From 1967 to 1973, ERG owned Gola and the Leisure Division was run by Alan Christopher Cowell MC along with companies like Camping Gaz Gola Sporting Goods.
He is the nephew of Sir Adolph Weiner of Viners Cutlery, who headed a prominent silversmith family in Sheffield and was knighted by the British monarchy. His wife, Maureen Black (ne Peres) is the daughter of Harold Peres, legendary music producer and record distributor of Solomon and Peres, a UK and Northern Ireland based company which later was acquired by Decca Records. In 1986, The Independent Broadcasting Authority (IBA) invited private sector companies to apply for a new television franchise via satellite. In an attempt to win the bid and operate The Direct Broadcasting by Satellite System,  Electronic Rentals Group was acquired by Granada Limited for an estimated 450M. The acquisition helped Granada Television to be awarded the fifteen-year franchise.In 1978, Black with his adult son Anthony Black and family moved to Johannesburg, South Africa to help establish broadcasting throughout Southern Africa. In 1978, Black's ERG subsidiary, Vision Hire, along with King Sobhuza II of Swaziland, founded the Swaziland Television Broadcasting Corporation (STBC). From 1978 to 1979, the Swaziland Government positioned television satellites toward South Africa to provide anti-Apartheid broadcasting to South Africa. Black was considered a silent player in the fight against Apartheid. In 1983, the government of the Kingdom of Swaziland nationalised Black's privately owned company. The company had a monopoly in all television gadgets or equipment, as a result, they government also acquired and operated Vision Hire. With the change of the television station from STBC to STVA, the name of Vision Hire was changed to the Swaziland Television Authority Rentals (STAR).