The West Wing is an American serial political drama television series created by Aaron Sorkin that was originally broadcast on NBC from September 22, 1999, to May 14, 2006. The series is set primarily in the West Wing of the White House, where the Oval Office and offices of presidential senior staff are located, during the fictitious Democratic administration of Josiah Bartlet.
The West Wing was produced by Warner Bros. Television and featured an ensemble cast, including Martin Sheen, John Spencer, Allison Janney, Rob Lowe, Bradley Whitford and Richard Schiff. For the first four seasons, there were three executive producers: Sorkin (lead writer of almost all of the first four seasons), Thomas Schlamme (primary director), and John Wells. After Sorkin left the series, Wells assumed the role of head writer, with later executive producers being directors Alex Graves and Christopher Misiano (seasons 67), and writers Lawrence O'Donnell Jr. and Peter Noah (season 7).
The West Wing is regarded as one of the greatest and most influential television series of all-time. It has been ranked amongst the best television shows of all time in publications such as, Time,  TV Guide, Empire, Rolling Stone and New York Daily News. The Writers Guild of America ranked it #10 in its "101 Best-Written TV Series" list. It has received praise from critics, political science professors, and former White House staffers and has been the subject of critical analysis.  The West Wing received a multitude of accolades including two Peabody Awards, three Golden Globe Awards and 26 Primetime Emmy Awards, including the award for Outstanding Drama Series, which it won four consecutive times from 2000-2003. The show's ratings waned in later years following the departure of series creator Sorkin after the fourth season (Sorkin wrote or co-wrote 85 of the first 88 episodes), yet it remained popular among high-income viewers, a key demographic for the show and its advertisers, with around 16 million viewers.