Udaari (Urdu: ; lit: To fly) was a Pakistani television series that aired on Hum TV. The series set awareness to child sexual abuse within the rural areas of the country. It was premiered on 10 April 2016 to 04 September 2016, co-produced by the creative head Momina Duraid with Kashf Foundation. The show is written by Farhat Ishtiaq and directed by Mohammed Ehteshamuddin. The story of the series focuses on the social and economic marginalization of citizens in Pakistani society alongside highlighting deeply rooted problems in Pakistan such as child sexual abuse, the uptake of music as a career, false police involvements and negative political supports, in order to break the myths and taboos which surround these issues by providing real solutions to serious problems. It centers on the lives of Sheedan and Sajida with Sheedan holding criticism due her local music career and Sajida's struggle after her second marriage when her husband rapes her daughter. The show was first aired on Hum TV, as a part of night programming all under Duraid's production company. The series is produced and written by the makers of Humsafar, Mata-e-Jaan Hai Tu and Diyar-e-Dil.Udaari has an ensemble cast with Bushra Ansari as Sheedan, Samiya Mumtaz as Sajida, Urwa Hocane as Ameera, Farhan Saeed as Arsh, Ahsan Khan as Imtiaz, and Hina Altaf Khan/Areesha Ahsan as Zebo. The show is set in the village Mirpur and Urban areas of Lahore, Punjab. Udaari premiered in Pakistan, UK, USA and UAE with same premier date and timings. It received Positive reviews throughout its premier till its finale by critics who found the story's arc well drafted and composed, the critics lauded the entire casting. Udaari remains popular throughout its run and garnered high to consistent ratings dominating the No.2 rank on the list of high rated TV series of 2016 season, close to its finale Udaari dominated the No #1 slot leaving behind Mann Mayal.
Udaari has received critical acclaim and won awards at 5th Hum Awards the most for the ceremony including, Best Drama Serial - Jury and Best Drama Serial - Popular for Momina Duraid, Best Director Drama Serial for Mohammed Ehteshamuddin, Best Actor - Jury for Ahsan Khan and Best Writer Drama Serial for Farhat Ishtiaq. At 15th Lux Style Awards, it won three awards including Best TV Writer and Best TV Director for Ishtiaq and Duraid and was nominated for Best TV Actor, Best TV Actress and Best Original Soundtrack.