Abhishek Ray is an eminent Indian film composer, playback singer, instrumentalist, music arranger, and producer working in Bollywood . He is well known for having composed the music and done playback vocals for popular and award-winning Bollywood films such as: Paan Singh Tomar, Welcome Back, Saheb, Biwi Aur Gangster, Wedding Anniversary, I Am Kalam, Shagird, Chaar Din Ki Chandni, Prem Mayee, Thoondil, Yeh Saali Zindagi, and Tera Kya Hoga Johnny.
Apart from feature films, Ray has composed and sung on solo albums like Udaas Paani, Raat Chand Aur Main,   Kab aate ho with the legendary poet Gulzar. In May, 2016, he has come up with a set of seven classic singles written once again by the legendary lyricist Gulzar featuring the voices of Shreya Ghoshal, Hariharan, Alka Yagnik, Abhijeet Bhattacharya, Udit Narayan and Kavita Krishnamurthy. Ray has many other exclusive world music albums to his credit like Jaisalmer-Call of the desert, Symphonies of the Taj, Echoes of Khajuraho , Ritu: The Magic of the Six Indian Seasons,Raga Rendezvous.He composed "Aye Jahaan Aasmaan", the concerto of love with a hundred piece live orchestra and the voices of Sonu Nigam and Shreya Ghoshal. This song won the best song of the year at Mirchi Music Awards 2017 and his song Yeh Dil Ajeeb Hai  written by Gulzar and sung by Hariharan simultaneously won the nomination in the same category.
He has also composed music for numerous documentaries like The Maharaja Of Jodhpur: The Legacy Lives On for which he received the 2006 Indian Telly Award for best Music. Others include The Shiamans Of The Himalayas, Apatanis of Arunachal Pradesh, Forced to Kill, and Nirvana for the Discovery Channel. He began his career composing and singing for TV shows and advertisements. Today he is one of the most well known Bollywood composers and fusion artiste.
Ray sings, composes, arranges, and mixes his songs and film scores. He works out of his recording studios in Versova, Andheri, Mumbai and Asiad Village, New Delhi. He plays instruments including the piano, electronic keyboards, accordion, wavedrum, conga, thumba, darbouka, electronic drum, and bass. Having a background of western classical piano and Hindustani classical vocals, he fuses elements of diverse musical streams in his arrangements. His original musical compositions are inspired by his nomadic lifestyle, untamed travels and Mother Nature.
Ray is also a naturalist and a bonafide government tiger and leopard tracker. He is an avid birder and wildlife conservationist and runs his own wildlife reserve next to Corbett National Park called the Sitabani Wildlife Reserve. He is known to have invested all that he earned from Bollywood into rewilding an entire barren hill into dense forest. Today Sitabani Wildlife Reserve is known for wild Bengal tiger and Leopard presence.
He is also the composer singer of India's national anthem on tiger conservation.