The Assamese people are the indigenous people of the state of Assam. They are a physically diverse group formed after years of assimilation of Austroasiatic, Dravidian, Indo-Aryan, Tibeto-Burman and Tai populations. The total population of native Assamese speakers in Assam is nearly 13 million which makes up 48.38% of the  population of Assam according to the Language census of 2011. Though there is a political dispute over the definition of Assamese people in Assam, in general; the people belonging to the state of Assam along with belonging to an indigenous community of Assam and speaking the Assamese language or any other language of Assam as his/her first language are referred as Assamese people.The indigenous Assamese people traditionally include ethnic groups like Assamese Brahmins (including Ganaks), Koch Rajbongshis, Ahoms, Deoris, SonowalKacharis, Rabhas, Hajongs, Bodo, Mishings, Assamese Kayasthas, Kalitas,Chutias, Keot(Kaibarta), Baro-Bhuyan, Mech Kacharis, ThengalKacharis, Tiwas, Sarania Kacharis,  Nath, Kumar, Hira, Tai-Phake, Tai-Aiton, Tai-Khamyangs, Tai-Khamti, Tai-Turung, other Tai groups, Moran, Motok, Doms/Nadiyals, Assamese Muslims (particularly Goria, Moria, Deshi communities), Assamese Sikhs, Assamese Christians speaking Assamese or any other tribal dialect of Assam as their mother tongue and indigenous ethnic groups of other neighbouring North-East states.
Though there is a political dispute over the definition of Assamese people, in general; the people belonging to the state of Assam are referred as Assamese people. The lack of a definition has put stumbling blocks in implementing clause 6 of the Assam Accord, an agreement signed by the activists of the Assam Movement and the Government of India in 1985. Since a legal definition is important to provide "constitutional, legislative and cultural" safeguards to the Assamese people, the Government of Assam had formed a ministerial committee to finalize the definition in March 2007. To address the clause 6 issue, AASU had announced a definition on April 10, 2000 which was based on residency with a temporal limit: All those whose names appeared in the 1951 National Register of Citizens and their progenies should be considered as Assamese.  Difficulty in definition is rooted in the heterogeneous nature of inhabitants of the Assam State.
According to 2011 census, Out of (13,257,272) Assamese people, majority of (10,013,013) or (75.52%) Assamese people are Hindus, largest minority of (2,830,072) or (21.34%) Assamese people are Muslims, and very few (414,187) or (3.14%) Assamese people are Christians and Sikhs by religion.